---
layout: post
title:  Extending Reality - Today
description: Current state of XR through my eyes
date:   2019-12-18
image:  '/images/ExtendingReality/ExtendingReality_POGO.jfif'
tags:   [XR]
---

### Visions of the future
Back in 2016, Pokémon GO took the world by storm and popularized a medium that the masses were not familiar with. I myself enjoyed this Augmented Reality(AR) game based off one of the most popular franchises in the world and within me brewed these questions of how far we could bring Extended Reality(XR) into our lives; seeing it being used not only in the field of entertainment, but also as part of our daily lives.

<iframe width="744" height="419" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YJg02ivYzSs" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe><br />

[Keiichi Matsuda](http://km.cx/) depicted in his video titled "HYPER-REALITY" a rather bleak image of an augmented world. It was saturated with media content and advertisements harassing the user, but it also showed what could be of our future. Curated advertisements catered to our needs and wants, holographic face to face phone calls, visual guides seamlessly immersed into our world and a lot more. Each time I watch his video I notice more and more, most of which I would love to see in the future.

Of course, the world I envisioned would not be as cluttered and hectic (or at least I'm hoping it does not turn out that way).

### Under the Umbrella

XR is an umbrella term that encompasses the immersive technologies that
we are familiar with today --- Augmented Reality (AR), Virtual Reality
(VR) and Mixed Reality (MR).

> Augmented Reality

In AR, virtual objects would be overlaid or superimposed on the real
world. An experience which one could experience through AR Glasses like
Google\'s [Glass](https://www.google.com/glass/) and a device that is
practically inseparable for many of us --- our phones.

<div class="gallery-box">
  <div class="gallery">
    <img src="/images/ExtendingReality/ExtendingReality_POGO.jfif" loading="lazy" alt="Pokemon GO">
  </div>
</div>

Niantic\'s [Pokémon GO](https://www.pokemongo.com/en-us/) is the most
popular experience available to us today. In Pokémon GO, digital
creatures known as Pokémon from the popular franchise Pokémon are
overlaid on our world providing their players with a new view of their
world; one filled with these digital creatures.

<iframe width="744" height="419" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/K6x44v8prFA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe><br />

We see facial overlaying being used in applications that we are so
familiar with; Snapchat and Instagram.
[Snapchat](https://www.snapchat.com/) introduced the world to AR
filters, allowing users to overlay virtual objects and masks. They also
took their game up one level by introducing World Lenses, in which the
user would be able to place 3D virtual objects in the real world and
even have the joy of experience new lenses daily.

<iframe width="744" height="419" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ttdPqly4OF8" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe><br />

AR on our mobile phones today are no longer just overlaying virtual
objects onto the real world. With advancements made on development kits
such as [ARKit](https://developer.apple.com/augmented-reality/) and
[ARCore](https://developers.google.com/ar), we are now able to
experience a more immersive augmented world. The use of concepts like
face tracking, motion tracking, light estimation and environmental
understanding allow the objects to be anchored to the real world and
provide a more immersive experience.

Today, a coding background is not even needed to create AR experiences.
[SparkAR](https://sparkar.facebook.com/ar-studio/) is a platform that
allows its users to create AR effects for mobile phone cameras and
publish them to be used for Facebook and Instagram stories.

AR is not used only used for entertainment but is used in other areas
such as marketing and education.

<iframe width="744" height="419" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/UmJriqzDUTo" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe><br />

[Wanna Kicks](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1444049305) offers users a
new shopping experience, allowing them to instantly try on various
footwear and purchase it after. Gone are the days where you would regret
buying shoes and end up selling them.

<iframe width="744" height="419" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PGByvh25uE0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe><br />

BK Brazil ran a promo campaign for their app. Users could point their
phone at their competitor\'s ads and \"burn\" them through the magic of
augmented reality and be rewarded with a free Whopper.

<iframe width="744" height="419" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2kpFr0XFgFA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe><br />

[DAQRI](https://daqri.com/)\'s Elements 4D aims to act as a chemistry
study aid. Users can scan cubes with different elements on each face and
put the cubes together to see a simulated chemical reaction that occurs
and what would result of it.

These are just barely scratching the surface of what has already been
accomplished with AR to this date. Many other AR experiences are
available, ready to augment our mundane day to day experiences and also
act as a steppingstone for what is to come in the future of AR.

> Virtual Reality

Looking through the lens of Virtual Reality offers its users an escape
from reality, immersing them in virtual environments and situations. VR
has become a popular means of transporting people from their living
rooms to a variety of simulations and experiences. All it takes is
putting on a headset.

With the abundance of VR headsets available to us today comes the many
experiences developed for our enjoyment.

<iframe width="744" height="419" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/VI-BUVJBApY" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe><br />

Ever wanted to commandeer the U.S.S. Aegis from the beloved Star Trek
universe? Or perhaps you would like to be an engineer on-board the U.S.S
Aegis? Well, Start Trek: Bridge Crew allows you to do just that. The VR
game places the player in the U.S.S Aegis as an officer of the
federation, leaving you to an unexplored sector of space to experience
brave adventures and discovering wonders kept secret by space itself.

<iframe width="744" height="419" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lzbBT6ZQm5s" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe><br />

Today we have a new transformative means of surgical training and
assessment. In a constantly expanding world with rising populations, it
is important to meet the demand for surgeons. OSSO VR introduces a
platform for the modern age, using VR to immerse aspiring surgeons in
hands-on experiences that culminates them in the field of surgery. This
allows for some resources and manpower used in training to be allocated
elsewhere.

VR offers itself as a versatile platform that could either immerse one
in a world so far from reality or a simulation resembling reality
itself. Or you could just pop a headset on and literally slash beats of
your favourite music as they fly towards you (See [Beat
Saber](https://youtu.be/Pxht1IJAJr0)).

> Mixed Reality

Between the streets of Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality is a
junction; the Mixed Reality junction. The best of both worlds. In MR, we
see virtual objects within our real-world space and even interacting
with the real world.

To better explain this blend\...

<iframe width="744" height="419" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_xpI0JosYUk" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe><br />

I am not going to lie; MR is my favourite medium because it aligns with
my visions of the future. The use of such technologies in
non-entertainment fields such as the medical fields and the field of
engineering.

<iframe width="744" height="419" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l2NnOCLexOE" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe><br />

Cleveland Clinic and Microsoft collaborates to explore and demonstrate
how data and models can be aligned to what surgeons see providing a more
detailed and guided method of learning and practice. It may not be the
most accurate now, due to limitations of technology today, but in the
future, we would indeed see actual surgeries itself assisted with
similar concepts.

<iframe width="744" height="419" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/y1UQ5NXXxiQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe><br />

Trimble Connect; a platform available on Microsoft\'s Hololens allows
people involved on various aspects of construction projects to work
together in greater detail. Aside from accurate visual layout of the
project, data is also communicated actively, creating a whole new
dynamic way to collaborate.

### Baby steps towards the future

<iframe width="744" height="419" loading="lazy" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8FlvL2yLmWg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe><br />

As we focus ahead on what lies on the future, [Focals by
North](https://www.bynorth.com/focals) offers to the world \"stylish
prescription smart glasses\" - bespoke glasses equipped with a display
private to your view and your view only. Whilst you seem to be strutting
down the street sporting a stylish pair of custom-made glasses, you
enjoy a private view of a Heads-Up-Display floating before your very
eyes. This display displays information such as messages, notifications
and the weather. It may not be a perfect step, but baby steps have
always been imperfect, right?

As I conclude this, I would like to invite anyone reading this to join
me in envisioning what our future could be as such technologies continue
to improve, develop and immerse itself into our lives.

<iframe loading="lazy" src="https://www.linkedin.com/embed/feed/update/urn:li:ugcPost:6613069058042630144" height="470" width="504" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="" title="Embedded post"></iframe><br />